# My-Network-experience
I took and passed the N10-007 Network+ exam by Comptia on the 18th of May 2022 with a score of 763/900 and on this page I will write about my experiences, resources used, and what I recommend other people do that are taking the Network+ exam.
## Resources used and recommended
I used many resources not on this list, but they were not good so I am not going to put them here
* Professor Messer's free video course
* Professor Messer's course notes
* Professor Messer's Take Ten Challenges
* Jason Dion's practice tests on Udemy
* Exam Compasses practice tests
* My own notes

## Getting started studying
When I was first getting started to study I was using the Network+ video course on Cyber and... it was terrible. I spent nearly a month watching and taking notes on that course and I did not retain much information. I would certainly NOT recommend taking that course as I did, nor do I recommend using Cybrary as a platform for learning at all. A bit after that though I stumbled upon the Professor Messer video course series and it was amazing. I watched the entire course a total of 3 times, used professor messer's course notes and took my own notes based on his video content and I learned a ton. I would highly recommend Professor Messer's video series, study groups and course notes to anyone looking to take a Comptia exam.

## Memorizing and practice tests
After going through the video courses and reading through my notes a bunch I understand nearly everything, perhaps with the exception of subnetting, but there was still a bit of a ways to go in order for me to memorize the information that I had learned. I used things like flashcards to memorize port numbers and protocols, I made drawings to help me remember wiring standards and I memorized professor messer's subnetting chart and seven second subnetting method. During this time I also started to take Jason Dion's practice tests on Udemy and they were a very good resource that I highly recommend. I didn't do all that well my first time around on the tests in the 60s and 70s for %, but a month or so later on my second attempts of each of the 6 tests I was getting from 85-95%. One tip to make sure you read the correct answer to each of the question and to under why each answer is right and why the other answers were wrong. Also don't just read the answers to the questions you got wrong, read the answers and explanations to ALL of the questions on the exams.

## The PBQ and exam structure
For those of you that don't know the Network+ exam works here is a quick run down. There are two types of questions multiple choice question (4 choices most of the time) and Performance Based Questions (PBQs) which are actual simulations where you may have configuration a router, troubleshoot a computer, make a T568B cable or many other things. We do not know how they grading for each questions works but it is assumed that you cannot fail all of the PBQ or you will fail the exams. You can get as many as 90 questions on the exam (I got 70), around 3-6 questions will be PBQ and you have 90 minutes to complete the exam. The PBQ in my opinion is why a lot of people fail the exam on the first attempt. I studied for a long time, but these questions still caught me a bit off guard. My advice is first to go do the single PBQ that comptia provides to give you an idea of what the test is like. If you cannot complete this PBQ then you are probably not ready for the exam, if you can complete it and do well on Dion's practice exams then you are probably ready for the exam.

## The exam itself
I went to a testing center in person for my exam but you can also take the exam online from your own home. Once I was sitting down in fron the monitor there were a bunch of agreements and things I have to read before taking the actual exam. Most of this information was boring and not that important but there was one interesting thing I did not know before sitting down to take the exam and that is that questions can be worth 0 points. I figure that the questions worth 0 points are those that have nothing to do with exam objectives (you may get a couple of these on the exam). Either way I click through all there is to read and start the exam. The first question was a PBQ (I had 5 in total). I tried to attempt the question right away and wasted around 10-15 minutes not achieving anything. I highly recommend to anyone taking a cOmptia test to wait until you are done with the multiple choice questions before tackling the PBQ. After 15 minutes of wasted time I moved on and knocked out the multiple choice questions in like 30 minutes easily, they were about the same difficulty as those on Dion's exams and I felt like I did decent on them. Then I went back and did the PBQs, spending around 30 minutes on them. Once I took the time to carefully read through them and understand them they weren't TOO difficult, but they were still a bit challenging, I think I got either 3 or 4 out the 5 correct. I went back throuh and read over the rest of the questions to make sure I didn't miss someting stupid and then I clicked submit. They have you answer a dumb questionar thing before seeing your results so after I quickly clicked through that I got my results, 763, I had passed!
